DOCS-2195 Browser Test Results Edits (#11173)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/browser_tests/test_results.md

  text: "Monitor Core Web Vitals with Synthetic Monitoring"
---

> A test result is the result of a Datadog Synthetic test execution. For browser tests, a test result corresponds to the execution of the test at some point in time, on one specific location, on a specific browser and type of device.

Author: ```suggestion
Test results appear after a Datadog Synthetic test execution. Browser test results correspond to the test execution at a point in time in one specific location, one specific browser, and one device type.
```

> Look at the latest failed test runs and compare them to recent successful ones in the **Sample Results** section. Scroll down to the **Test Results** section and click on a test result to examine the result thoroughly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Look at the latest failed test runs and compare them to recent successful ones in the **Sample Results** section. Scroll down to the **Test Results** section and click on a test result to examine a specific result thoroughly.
```

> You can use the **Sample Results** section as a way to quickly look into the latest failed test runs and compare them with recent successful ones. You can also scroll down to the **Test Results** section of the page, click on any test result to look into it more thoroughly.

Author: ```suggestion
Look at the latest failed test runs and compare them to recent successful ones in the **Sample Results** section. Scroll down to the **Test Results** section and click on a test result to examine the result thoroughly.
```

You can use the **Sample Results** section as a way to quickly look into the latest failed test runs and compare them with recent successful ones. You can also scroll down to the **Test Results** section of the page, click on any test result to look into it more thoroughly.

> ## Test failure

Author: How about "Failed tests" as a heading instead of "failure?"

> [Browser test results](#test-results) include components such as [screenshots](#screenshots), [page performance dates](#page-performance), [errors](#errors), [resources](#resources), and [backend traces](#backend traces) to help troubleshoot your [test failure](#test-result-failure).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Browser test results](#test-results) include components such as [screenshots](#screenshots), [page performance data](#page-performance), [errors](#errors), [resources](#resources), and [backend traces](#backend traces) to help troubleshoot your [test failure](#test-result-failure).
```
?

> [Browser test results](#test-results) consist of a variety of components such as [screenshots](#screenshots), [page performance date](#page-performance), [errors](#errors), [resources](#resources), [backend traces](#backend traces), and more that can help you troubleshoot your [test failure](#test-result-failure).

Author: ```suggestion
[Browser test results](#test-results) include components such as [screenshots](#screenshots), [page performance dates](#page-performance), [errors](#errors), [resources](#resources), and [backend traces](#backend traces) to help troubleshoot your [test failure](#test-result-failure).
```

## Test results

> The following test result characteristics are displayed at the top of every browser test result:

Author: ```suggestion
The following test result characteristics appear at the top of every browser test result:
```

- Status

> - Starting URL

Author: @MargotLepizzera when I look at Sample Results of a browser test, I see Starting URL but in Test Results, I don't see Starting URL. Should we remove this entry?

Reviewer: We can leave it - we might actually add the starting URL to the test results list at some point 😄

- Number of steps
- Duration
- Location
- Device
- Browser
- Time ran
- Run type

### Screenshots

> Browser tests come with a screenshot for each executed step. Screenshots allows you to visualize the whole journey your test went through.

Author: ```suggestion
Browser tests contain screenshots for every executed test step. Screenshots help you visualize the journey your browser test went through.
```

### Page performance

> Each step where a full URL is loaded contains page performance information.

Author: ```suggestion
Every step in which a full URL loads contains page performance information.
```

  text: "Monitor Core Web Vitals with Synthetic Monitoring"
---

> Test results appear after a Datadog Synthetic test execution. Browser test results correspond to the test execution at a point in time in one specific location, one specific browser, and one device type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test results appear after a Datadog Synthetic test execution. Browser test results correspond to the test execution at a point in time in one specific location, one specific browser, and one specific device type.
```

> Look at the latest failed test runs and compare them to recent successful ones in the **Sample Results** section. Scroll down to the **Test Results** section and click on a test result to examine a specific result thoroughly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Look at the latest failed test runs and compare them to a recent successful one in the **Sample Results** section. Scroll down to the **Test Results** section and click on a test result to examine a specific result thoroughly.
```

> [Browser test results](#test-results) include components such as [screenshots](#screenshots), [page performance data](#page-performance), [errors](#errors), [resources](#resources), and [backend traces](#backend-traces) to help troubleshoot your [test failure](#test-result-failure).

Author: ```suggestion
[Browser test results](#test-results) include components such as [screenshots](#screenshots), [page performance data](#page-performance), [errors](#errors), [resources](#resources), and [backend traces](#backend-traces) to help troubleshoot your [test failure](#failed-test-result).
```

## Test results

The following test result characteristics appear at the top of every browser test result:

Status

> : The status of your alert (Alert or OK).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The status of your test result (Alert or OK).
```

`General test failure`
: A general error message. Contact [Datadog support][1] for more details.

## Page performance

Every step where a URL is completely loaded contains page performance information.

### User experience

[Google's Core Web Vitals][2] are a set of three metrics designed to monitor a site's user experience. These metrics provide a view of load performance, interactivity, and visual stability. 

Every metric includes guidance about the range of values that translates to a good user experience.

Synthetic Monitoring includes two available lab metrics: [Largest Contentful Paint][3] and [Cumulative Layout Shift][4].

When using Real User Monitoring and real user or field data is available, [First Input Delay][5] is also available.

For more information, see [Real User Monitoring and Core Web Vitals][6].

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/browser/core-web-vitals.png" alt="Core Web Vitals summary visualization"  >}}

## Waterfall

A test result consists of a test execution, screenshots, and durations. 

The following test result characteristics are displayed:

- Status
- Starting URL
- Number of steps
- Duration
- Location
- Device
- Browser

> - Time Ran

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Time ran
```

> - Run Type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Run type
```

% Total Time 
: The resource duration over the total interaction time.

Size
: The size of the request response.

The maximum number of resources that can be displayed is 50. Resources are ordered by the time when they start and then are displayed in Datadog by the first 50.

#### Filter and search

Resources can be filtered by resource type. Also, a search can be performed over the displayed URLs.

### Backend Traces

The traces panel shows your traces associated with the browser synthetic test. The UI is similar to the APM [Trace View][7] except for the following difference.

One browser step can make multiple requests to different URLs/endpoints, which results in several associated traces (depending on your tracing setup and on the URLs you allowed in your [Settings][8]). Use the dropdown to choose the trace to view.

### Step duration

The step duration represents the amount of time the step takes to execute with our [locator algorithm][9]. Not only does the step duration include the action (such as user interactions), but also it incorporates the wait and retry mechanism, which allows browser tests to ensure an element is able to be interacted with. 

## Failed test result

> A test result is considered `FAILED` if it does not satisfy its assertions or if a step failed for another reason. You can troubleshoot failed runs by looking at their screenshots, checking for potential [errors](#errors) at the step level, and looking into [backend traces](#traces) generated by their steps.

Author: ```suggestion
A test result is considered `FAILED` if it does not satisfy its assertions or if a step failed for another reason. You can troubleshoot failed runs by looking at their screenshots, checking for potential [errors](#errors) at the step level, and looking into [backend traces](#backend-traces) generated by their steps.
```

The maximum number of resources that can be displayed is 50. Resources are ordered by the time when they start and then are displayed in Datadog by the first 50.

#### Filter and search

Resources can be filtered by resource type. Also, a search can be performed over the displayed URLs.

### Backend Traces

The traces panel shows your traces associated with the browser synthetic test. The UI is similar to the APM [Trace View][7] except for the following difference.

One browser step can make multiple requests to different URLs/endpoints, which results in several associated traces (depending on your tracing setup and on the URLs you allowed in your [Settings][8]). Use the dropdown to choose the trace to view.

### Step duration

> The step duration represents the time the step took to be executed using our [locator algorithm][9]. This means the step duration not only includes the action itself (ie. any user interactions) but also adds the wait and retry mechanism that allows us browser tests to ensure the element is ready to be interacted with. 

Author: ```suggestion
The step duration represents the amount of time the step takes to execute with our [locator algorithm][9]. Not only does the step duration include the action (such as user interactions), but also it incorporates the wait and retry mechanisms which allows browser tests to ensure an element is able to be interacted with. 
```

> The step duration represents the amount of time the step takes to execute with our [locator algorithm][9]. Not only does the step duration include the action (such as user interactions), but also it incorporates the wait and retry mechanisms which allows browser tests to ensure an element is able to be interacted with. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The step duration represents the amount of time the step takes to execute with our [locator algorithm][9]. Not only does the step duration include the action (such as user interactions), but also it incorporates the wait and retry mechanism which allows browser tests to ensure an element is able to be interacted with. 
```

> ## Test result failure

Author: ```suggestion
## Failed test result
```

A test result is considered `FAILED` if it does not satisfy its assertions or if a step failed for another reason. You can troubleshoot failed runs by looking at their screenshots, checking for potential [errors](#errors) at the step level, and looking into [backend traces](#traces) generated by their steps.

Common browser test errors include:

`Element located but it's invisible` 
: The element is on the page but cannot be clicked on—for instance, if another element is overlaid on top of it.

`Cannot locate element`
: The element cannot be found in the HTML.

`Select did not have option`
: The specified option is missing from the dropdown menu.

`Forbidden URL`

> : The test likely encountered a protocol that is not supported. Reach out to [Datadog support][1] for further details.

Author: ```suggestion
: The test likely encountered a protocol that is not supported. Reach out to [Datadog support][1] for more details.
```

`General test failure`

> : A general error message. [Contact support][1] for further details.

Author: ```suggestion
: A general error message. [Contact support][1] for more details.
```
